---
title: "pyOCD 0.32.1 released"
date: 2021-10-18
categories:
  - release
author: Chris Reed
excerpt: "Python 3.10 wheels and several bug fixes."
---

I'm happy to announce that pyOCD version 0.32.1 has been released. This is a small bug fix release that
primarily is intended to add Python 3.10 support through the release of Python 3.10 wheels. We also
released cmsis-pack-manager version 0.4.0 with pre-built wheels for Python 3.10.

One noteworthy change is for J-Link support. Previously, pyOCD would always "connect" the J-Link (versus only
opening it) using a default device name of "Cortex-M4". If the target's CPU didn't match, the J-Link driver
would log a warning and carry on just fine. The warning was normally invisible to pyOCD users unless debug
logging is turned on for the `pyocd.probes.jlink_probe.trace` logger, so it wasn't much of an issue.

In fact, connecting is unnecessary for the low-level CoreSight operations that pyOCD uses. The J-Link only
needs to be opened and CoreSight configured. So now pyOCD will only connect the J-Link if the
`jlink.device` session option is set to a valid J-Link device name. Currently, the benefit of setting this
is minimal since pyOCD has its own target support. In the future, this option may be required to enable
J-Link's fast memory transfers.

In addition the J-Link probe plug-in now supports a `jlink.non_interactive` session option to place the
J-Link driver in non-interactive mode and prevent dialogs from being presented requiring user action. It
is enabled by default.

[v0.32.1 on GitHub](https://github.com/pyocd/pyOCD/releases/tag/v0.32.1) \
[v0.32.1 on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/pyocd/0.32.1/)

----

### Additions

- Explicit Python 3.10 support and 3.10 wheels.
- JLinkProbe: added `jlink.non_interactive` option.

### Targets

* Update flash algo for `lpc55s36`. (thanks @Hoohaha!)

### Fixes

* Session options: correctly handle session options with float values from the command line.
* Board: log description of exception during uninit.
* JLinkProbe: only connect if `jlink.device` is set.
* CortexM: fixed missing format args for warnings from post reset checks.
* Packs: correct which vendor is output for find and show.

### Packaging

* Packaging: dependency version bumps and classifier update. This fixes the issue with a pyyaml version conflict.
* Packaging: bump cmsis-pack-manager to v0.4.0 release.

### CI

* Workflows: add Python 3.10 to basic test.

[**Full Changelog**](https://github.com/pyocd/pyOCD/compare/v0.32.0...v0.32.1)


